== SAIL Data Service

SAIL is the Scalable Architecture for Interactive Learning:

  http://www.telscenter.org/confluence/display/SAIL. 

The SAIL Data Service implements web services which allow portals to deploy SAIL-based 
Java learning environments.

The SDS supports dynamically creating jnlp files for starting SAIL-based Java webstart
applications delivered to workgroups of students. The data the workgroup has previously created
are delivered and any new data the workgroup creates during their session using the application
are saved back to the SDS.

The SDS is designed to be used in combination with an existing portal. The portal works with the
SDS to make SAIL activities available for it's users. The users normally never see the SDS.

Projects are made available to cohorts of users/learners through 'Offerings'. One Project can be
made available through many Offerings -- each Offering is for a different cohort of users.

The SDS needs two things in order to create an Offering a Curnit (a SAIL curriculum unit) and an
existing Jnlp for the SDS to use as a template. The template Jnlp lists all the Java resources
needed to run the Curnit. In the TELS project this is a jnlp that is created by the programmers
running a script after they have checked in and built new revisions of the Java application.

After a curnit and jnlp are associated in an Offering, SAIL users are registered in the SDS by
the portal. This is normally not done directly on the SDS (though it can be when testing),
instead an existing portal registers its users on the SDS by calling REST-based web services in
the SDS.

After SailUsers and an Offering are created, Workgroups for that Offering are created consisting
of one or more SDS SailUsers. At this point a Jnlp url becomes available for starting an SDS
Offering for that Workgroup.

The normal course at this point is for the portal to make the Jnlp url available to
authenticated members of the workgroup. Any data created by the users during their session with
the Offering will be saved to the SDS and made available the next time they run the same
Offering. These data are also available for reporting to teachers and researchers.</p>

See the Sail Data Services wiki page:

  http://www.telscenter.org/confluence/display/SAIL/SAIL+Data+Services 

for more information.
